=head1 NAME

Clutter::glossary - Glossary of Clutter terms

=head1 DESCRIPTION

In order to understand the Clutter documentation it is necessary to define
a common set of terms. This glossary lists those terms.

=over

=item B<actor>

An item in the I<scenegraph>. Every actor has a I<parent>, except the I<stage>,
and some actors can be I<containers>. Every actor has a I<geometry> and, when
visible, it should paint its contents. The base class for actors is
L<Clutter::Actor>.

=item B<allocation>

The final size of an I<actor> within its I<parent>, either explicitly set by
the developer or by the I<container>. For example, an actor might have a
preferred I<minimum size> of 20 by 20 pixels and a I<natural size> of 40 by 40
pixels, but its parent may decide to allocate 50 by 20 pixels for it instead.

See also: I<minimum size>, I<natural size>

=item B<child>

A I<container>'s child is an I<actor> contained inside it.

=item B<container>

An I<actor> which can contain other actors. If a container is meant to be
extended using public API it should implement the L<Clutter::Container>
interface; otherwise it is a composite actor. A container can let its
I<children> manage their I<geometry>, like L<Clutter::Group>, or they can
take care of assigning one.

=item B<event>

Events are the way in which the Clutter backend informs Clutter about
external events like pointer motion, button clicks, key presses, etc.

=item B<geometry>

An I<actor>'s position and size. A geometry can be expressed in
I<actor>-relative I<untransformed> coordinates; or in I<stage>-relative,
I<transformed> coordinates.

=item B<minimum size>

The minimum, useful size of an I<actor>. For instance, a button might have
a minimum size of 20 by 20 millimeters on a touch screen, to retain the
ability for the user to press it. A I<container> that manages the size of
its I<children> should always try to I<allocate> at least their minimum size.

See also: I<natural size>, I<allocation>

=item B<natural size>

The default size requested by an I<actor>.

See also: I<minimum size>, I<allocation>

=item B<parent>

An I<actor>'s parent is the I<container> which the actor resides.

=item B<scenegraph>

The tree of all I<actors>, starting from the I<stage> at the root and
following the I<containers>.

=item B<stage>

The top-level I<container> for I<actors>. Depending on the Clutter back end
a stage can be associated to a window or to a frame buffer; also depending
on the back end is the number of instantiatable stages. Stages in Clutter can
be manipulated using the L<Clutter::Stage> API.

=item B<transformation>

A rotation, scaling or traslation of an I<actor>. Transformations are
independent of the actor's I<geometry>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Emmanuele Bassi E<lt>ebassi@linux.intel.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009 Intel Corporation

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of either:

=over 4

=item * the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1; or

=item * the Artistic License, version 2.0.

=back

See L<Clutter> for the full copyright notice.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Clutter> (3pm)

=cut
